---
layout: page
title: App Hooks
category: apps
date: 2016-05-24 14:39:00
active_item: ""
order: 1
---

There are situations when Mergado wants or needs to actively contact your application, so it can perform anything that is needed at that moment.

***App hooks*** are invoked as POST requests targeted at a ***secure URL*** of the application, with **data** being encoded as `application/json`.

App's endpoint URL is located at `hook` directory inside Mergado's system `_mergado` directory located in app's WWW directory accessible through app's URL;
eg. `https://appcloud.mergado.com/apps/myapp/_mergado/hook/`. ***This URL is secure***; that means all requests targeting this URL that are not blocked by App Cloud server are valid requests from Mergado and you can and should treat them as such.

{: .warning}
**Warning:** App's hook URL are secure by default. That is done via `Mergado-Apps-Hook-Auth` HTTP heaeder containing a correct secret hash that is unique for your application. Content of this header is something only Mergado and you can know. ***Never*** give contents of this HTTP header to anybody.

## Data

**Data** passed with a request depend entirely on the type of the hook that is being invoked. Any script that is handling app hooks (eg. a PHP script `index.php` located in the `/hook/` directory) must assume data structure based on the `action` field:

```json
{
    "action": "app.enable",
    "entity_id": 42,
    "entity_type": "shop"
}
```

Here, as an example, because the field `action` contains `app.enable`, we can now safely assume that **data** will also contain fields `entity_id` and `entity_type` and thus we know that Mergado is calling this hook because someone enabled your application for `e-shop` that has ID of `42`.

## App's response

A hook is considered **properly** handled when Mergado receives back a `2xx` HTTP response. Hooks returning `4xx` HTTP response are considered to be handled **improperly** and that can either be evaluated as an error or can be safely ignored, based on the nature of the hook. Lastly, a hook is considered to be **erroneous** when there is `5xx` HTTP response and such situations are always considered an error.

{: .info}
**Important:** Some hooks tolerate having a `404` response having sent back, since their handling is optional. This can be a case of hook handler not being implemented at the target hook URL. Keep in mind that other hooks may not be as forgiving.

## Hooks

Below is the list of currently implemented hooks that can and most probably will be called by Mergado to your app.

Hook | Parameters | Description
---- | ---------- | -----------
**app.enabled** <br> *(optional)* | - `entity_id`: ID of entity (based on type) for which the app is being enabled <br> - `entity_type`: Type of entity. Can be `user`, `shop` or `project`. | This hook is called when app is being enabled. If this hook is **properly** handled, app enabled. Otherwise the app is not allowed to be enabled.
**app.disabled** <br> *(optional)* | - `entity_id`: ID of entity (based on type) for which the app is being disabled <br> - `entity_type`: Type of entity. Can be `user`, `shop` or `project`. | This hook is called when app is being disabled. If this hook is **properly** handled, app disabled. Otherwise the app is not allowed to be disabled.
